# Data description
This project will endeavor to answer the following questions: What formulation of edible coating best extends the post-harvest shelf life of pineapple fruits? What matrix components at what concentrations best form the necessary microenvironment around the fruit to slow physical and microbial degradation? To answer these questions, the physiological changes which indicate ripening of pineapples will be compared within and between treatments in an experimental design by collecting quantitative data of the weight loss, color change, firmness, titratable acidity (TA), and sugar content (TSS), as well as fungal and microbial growth. All of these variables will be measured or calculated as necessary according to the metadata protocol maintained by the lab. All values will be ultimately numerical, and maintained in an Excel spreadsheet format for the purposes of data entry and analysis. Data collection requires a variety of experimental methods, equipment and instrumentation, including but not limited to the following: (i) A scale for weight loss measurements, with values uploaded into a spreadsheet. (ii) Photos taken with an iPhone camera, uploaded and arranged into folders with organized naming schemes indicating the date and treatment, as well as .txt files in each folder to explain the contents as necessary. (iii) Color change values calculated with Hunter LAB colorimeter data, entered into an excel spreadsheet, compared to the initial color. (iv) Firmness assessed with a texture analyzer and Exponent Connect software, by plunging a stainless-steel cylinder into the pineapple flesh and assessing the Newtons of force necessary. (v) TA and TSS and analyzed by blending sample in a Proctor Silex blender for one minute, then using a handheld refractometer to measure TSS, and a pH meter to titrate with 0.1N NaOH and calculate to find % equivalent citric acid for TA. (vi) Antifungal capacity tested by plating buffer water massaged on the pineapple surface onto Petri dishes and counting mold colonies that grow after one week. (vii) All parameters will be averaged across all pineapples analyzed and the standard deviation found and reported, with SAS software used to assess statistically significant differences via ANOVA and post-hoc LSD.

All of the datasets together except photos will be kept in one excel spreadsheet, each on a different page, all of which should not exceed 1 MB total. Because of the short shelf life of pineapple fruits, the opportunities for photos are few, thus will not exceed 1 GB.


# Roles and responsibilities
The responsibilities with the raw data specifically will belong to the primary researcher and include collection, uploading and organization of the data for each preliminary and final trial with different pineapple coatings, as well as synthesis and analysis of the data. The PI will be the authority on data documentation expectations, as well as implementing the Data Management Plan (DMP), assisting with data analysis, communication, publication and presentation, setting metadata protocols for the lab, and archiving the files upon completion of experimentation. The lab post-doc will assist with data collection and ensure necessary instrument maintenance and calibration are completed as necessary. The funding for this project will come contractually through the company FiberLean, but they will not collect or directly receive any raw data. If a participating member must leave the project for any reason, their responsibilities and data collected until that point will be transferred to the primary researcher and redistributed to the other lab members if necessary.

# Data standards and metadata
There are no metadata standards specifically for the food science field, but internally the lab within which the research will take place has many metadata practices detailed in written documents both for the collection and analysis of data from all experimental parameters, which will be followed for the duration of this project. Aside from these, the data documentation plan for this project involves creating and maintaining a data dictionary, which will include (but is not limited to) abbreviation meanings, methods of data collection, and other information linked to the project and metadata as a whole to delineate necessary spreadsheets. The lab will maintain organized written manuals (both physical and electronic copies) for standards of setup and usage of equipment to collect data, both from manufacturers and written internally. Metadata including but not limited to instrument details and date and time will be recorded for the numerical values at the time of collection in organized .txt files. Lastly, for the photographs associated with projects, these will be uploaded with .txt files delineating details such as date, project, photographer, location, camera, and treatment condition of the fruit.

# Storage and security
There is no commonly used shared network drive for the Food Science and Technology department on which to save the data, therefore the data for this project will be stored and updated in the following locations, all of which are password-protected or require dual authentication: The personal, laptop of the primary researcher backed up to an external hard drive automatically on a daily basis, as well as a USB, and Google Drive on a non-university account, totaling four locations. The data will be retained and maintained personally throughout the duration of the project, and the files on Google Drive shared with the PI and post-doc for access, download and manipulation after graduation of the primary researcher. This will allow the data to remain unchanged and independent of each individual person involved, and for the PI to maintain the data for an expected 15 years following the project in the case of future related research. By saving the data in multiple locations (physical and in the cloud), this ensures that instance such as damage, theft, or a glitch in the cloud cannot topple the project. Although it requires time and coordination to save all data in all four locations, it is necessary, especially as the quantity of data collected grows, to backup in this way. A standard file naming system will be used across all data, containing the date in YYYYMMDD format, followed by the lab code for the project component and the initials of the researcher. This will be done both to ensure proper organization as well as a version control mechanism to consistently recognize the most recent version of a file. A .txt file will be included in the folder containing organized project codes and definitions.

# Access and data sharing
The data will be collected as funded and instructed by FiberLean using patented OSU technology and processes. Because of these parameters and the competitive nature of the industry, the data and reports are all confidential, and therefore cannot ever be publicly available. The data are available to those who work to collect them (at OSU main campus and the Mid-Columbia Research and Extension Center), as well as individuals within FiberLean upon request, but otherwise must remain protected for funding and patented technology reasons. Full experimental papers may be published with data visualizations and averages (whether in the paper or an associated .csv file) to communicate the findings of the data if approved by FiberLean, but the full raw data will never be published.

# Archiving and preservation
A data preservation plan for the lab will be written and implemented as a standard for the sake of completeness and consistency of all projects. This plan will outline the 15-year archival expectation of all data, both photographic and numerical, due to the high importance of the data and the likelihood of future experimentation building upon that which has already been collected. The archival will begin with collaboration between the PI, the primary researcher and others assisting with research and data collection to ensure an overall and holistic organized data structure within folders and subfolders for the project. The next step will be forwarding these folders to the PI, who maintains all project information from the lab on personal drives (internal and external), in the form of folders containing sub-folders of projects, containing sub-folders of photos, spreadsheets, and .txt files with explanations of the data and metadata as necessary for use once the primary researchers and data collector or compiler has left the institution. According to the data preservation plan, the photos will be saved in a compatible .jpg format and the spreadsheets converted from Excel to .csv files to ensure longevity and accessibility. Until and unless another individual continues the archived project, the PI will store and organize all files, sharing them upon request on a necessary basis if that was to eventually occur.

Repository with source code [here](https://github.com/clarallebot/GRAD521_DMPtemplate)
